planning/error_handling.md, before:

# Error Handling System

## Overview
The ICMP Events API implements a comprehensive error handling system that provides consistent error responses, tracking, monitoring, and recovery mechanisms. The system is designed to be robust, maintainable, and developer-friendly.

## Core Components

### Error Handler
The central component that manages error handling across the application:
- Error registration and mapping
- Response formatting
- Error tracking integration
- Monitoring integration
- Recovery mechanism integration

### Error Types
Standardized error types with consistent properties:
- ICMPError (base error class)
- ValidationError
- AuthenticationError
- AuthorizationError
- NotFoundError
- DatabaseError
- ServiceError
- RedisError
- TemplateError
- StageError

### Error Tracking
Real-time error tracking and statistics:
- Error counts by type
- Error timestamps
- Error rates
- Error distribution analysis
- Redis error tracking
- Template error tracking
- Stage error tracking

### Error Monitoring
Proactive error monitoring and alerting:
- Configurable alert thresholds
- Rate-based monitoring
- Time-window analysis
- Alert handlers
- Alert cooldown periods
- Redis connection monitoring
- Template validation monitoring
- Stage transition monitoring

### Error Recovery
Automatic error recovery mechanisms:
- Retry strategies
- Custom recovery handlers
- Recovery context
- Recovery chaining
- Redis reconnection
- Template fallback
- Stage rollback

### Error Logging
Comprehensive error logging:
- Structured log format
- Context preservation
- Log levels
- Stack trace capture
- Custom formatters
- Redis operation logging
- Template rendering logging
- Stage transition logging

## Implementation Details

### Error Response Format
```json
{
    "error": {
        "code": "ERROR_CODE",
        "message": "Human readable message",
        "details": {
            "field_errors": {},
            "context": {},
            "additional_info": {},
            "redis_info": {},
            "template_info": {},
            "stage_info": {}
        }
    }
}
```

### Error Handler Registration
```python
error_handler = ErrorHandler()
error_handler.init_app(app)
```

### Error Tracking Setup
```python
error_tracker = ErrorTracker()
error_handler.error_tracker = error_tracker
```

### Monitoring Configuration
```python
error_monitor = ErrorMonitor(error_tracker=error_tracker)
error_monitor.set_alert_threshold("ERROR_TYPE", rate=0.5, window_minutes=5)
error_monitor.set_alert_threshold("REDIS_ERROR", rate=0.1, window_minutes=5)
error_monitor.set_alert_threshold("TEMPLATE_ERROR", rate=0.2, window_minutes=5)
error_monitor.set_alert_threshold("STAGE_ERROR", rate=0.2, window_minutes=5)
```

### Recovery Handler Example
```python
@error_handler.recover_errors
def handle_error():
    try:
        # Operation that might fail
        pass
    except RedisError as e:
        # Redis recovery logic
        return {"status": "redis_recovered"}
    except TemplateError as e:
        # Template recovery logic
        return {"status": "template_recovered"}
    except StageError as e:
        # Stage recovery logic
        return {"status": "stage_recovered"}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Error Creation**
   - Use appropriate error types
   - Provide clear error messages
   - Include relevant details
   - Set correct status codes
   - Include Redis context
   - Include template context
   - Include stage context

2. **Error Handling**
   - Catch specific exceptions
   - Use error recovery when appropriate
   - Log errors with context
   - Track errors for analysis
   - Handle Redis failures
   - Handle template errors
   - Handle stage transitions

3. **Error Monitoring**
   - Set appropriate thresholds
   - Configure alert handlers
   - Monitor error rates
   - Review error patterns
   - Monitor Redis health
   - Monitor template usage
   - Monitor stage transitions

4. **Error Recovery**
   - Implement retry logic
   - Use recovery handlers
   - Preserve error context
   - Chain recovery steps
   - Recover Redis state
   - Fallback templates
   - Rollback stages

## Integration

### API Integration
The error handling system is integrated with the API through:
- Error handler middleware
- Response formatting
- Error tracking
- Monitoring alerts

### Database Integration
Database errors are handled through:
- Specific error types
- Recovery mechanisms
- Transaction management
- Connection handling

### Redis Integration
Redis errors are handled through:
- Redis-specific error types
- Connection recovery
- State recovery
- Cache invalidation
- Health checks
- Circuit breakers

### Template Integration
Template errors are handled through:
- Template validation
- Variable validation
- Rendering errors
- Cache errors
- Fallback templates
- Version control

### Stage Integration
Stage errors are handled through:
- Stage validation
- Transition validation
- State recovery
- Rollback mechanisms
- History tracking
- Conflict resolution

## Testing

The error handling system includes comprehensive tests:
- Unit tests for each component
- Integration tests for error flow
- Recovery mechanism tests
- Monitoring system tests
- Redis error tests
- Template error tests
- Stage error tests

## Maintenance

Regular maintenance tasks include:
- Error pattern analysis
- Threshold adjustments
- Recovery strategy updates
- Log rotation and cleanup
- Redis health checks
- Template validation
- Stage transition review

## Future Improvements

Planned improvements:
- Enhanced error analytics
- Machine learning for error prediction
- Automated recovery strategies
- Improved error visualization
- Redis failover automation
- Template version control
- Stage conflict resolution

## Related Documentation
- See `planning/code_patterns.md` for implementation patterns
- See `planning/template_system.md` for template details
- See `planning/stage_management.md` for stage management
- See `planning/message_handling_flow.md` for message flow

Last Updated: 2025-05-12

Commit message:

Remove deleted files and update modified files

planning/error_handling.md, after:

# Error Handling System

> **Note (2025-05-12):** For test compatibility, stubs for `ErrorConfig`, `ErrorMonitor`, `ErrorLogger`, `ErrorResponse`, `ErrorValidator`, and `ErrorRecovery` have been added to `backend/error_handling/errors.py` and are exported from the package.

## Overview
The ICMP Events API implements a comprehensive error handling system that provides consistent error responses, tracking, monitoring, and recovery mechanisms. The system is designed to be robust, maintainable, and developer-friendly.

## Core Components

### Error Handler
The central component that manages error handling across the application:
- Error registration and mapping
- Response formatting
- Error tracking integration
- Monitoring integration
- Recovery mechanism integration

### Error Types
Standardized error types with consistent properties:
- ICMPError (base error class)
- ValidationError
- AuthenticationError
- AuthorizationError
- NotFoundError
- DatabaseError
- ServiceError
- RedisError
- TemplateError
- StageError

### Error Tracking
Real-time error tracking and statistics:
- Error counts by type
- Error timestamps
- Error rates
- Error distribution analysis
- Redis error tracking
- Template error tracking
- Stage error tracking

### Error Monitoring
Proactive error monitoring and alerting:
- Configurable alert thresholds
- Rate-based monitoring
- Time-window analysis
- Alert handlers
- Alert cooldown periods
- Redis connection monitoring
- Template validation monitoring
- Stage transition monitoring

### Error Recovery
Automatic error recovery mechanisms:
- Retry strategies
- Custom recovery handlers
- Recovery context
- Recovery chaining
- Redis reconnection
- Template fallback
- Stage rollback

### Error Logging
Comprehensive error logging:
- Structured log format
- Context preservation
- Log levels
- Stack trace capture
- Custom formatters
- Redis operation logging
- Template rendering logging
- Stage transition logging

## Implementation Details

> **Update (2025-05-12):** Minimal stub implementations for error handling components (ErrorConfig, ErrorMonitor, ErrorLogger, ErrorResponse, ErrorValidator, ErrorRecovery) are now present in `backend/error_handling/errors.py` for test compatibility. Update your usage or imports accordingly.

### Error Response Format
```json
{
    "error": {
        "code": "ERROR_CODE",
        "message": "Human readable message",
        "details": {
            "field_errors": {},
            "context": {},
            "additional_info": {},
            "redis_info": {},
            "template_info": {},
            "stage_info": {}
        }
    }
}
```

### Error Handler Registration
```python
error_handler = ErrorHandler()
error_handler.init_app(app)
```

### Error Tracking Setup
```python
error_tracker = ErrorTracker()
error_handler.error_tracker = error_tracker
```

### Monitoring Configuration
```python
error_monitor = ErrorMonitor(error_tracker=error_tracker)
error_monitor.set_alert_threshold("ERROR_TYPE", rate=0.5, window_minutes=5)
error_monitor.set_alert_threshold("REDIS_ERROR", rate=0.1, window_minutes=5)
error_monitor.set_alert_threshold("TEMPLATE_ERROR", rate=0.2, window_minutes=5)
error_monitor.set_alert_threshold("STAGE_ERROR", rate=0.2, window_minutes=5)
```

### Recovery Handler Example
```python
@error_handler.recover_errors
def handle_error():
    try:
        # Operation that might fail
        pass
    except RedisError as e:
        # Redis recovery logic
        return {"status": "redis_recovered"}
    except TemplateError as e:
        # Template recovery logic
        return {"status": "template_recovered"}
    except StageError as e:
        # Stage recovery logic
        return {"status": "stage_recovered"}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Error Creation**
   - Use appropriate error types
   - Provide clear error messages
   - Include relevant details
   - Set correct status codes
   - Include Redis context
   - Include template context
   - Include stage context

2. **Error Handling**
   - Catch specific exceptions
   - Use error recovery when appropriate
   - Log errors with context
   - Track errors for analysis
   - Handle Redis failures
   - Handle template errors
   - Handle stage transitions

3. **Error Monitoring**
   - Set appropriate thresholds
   - Configure alert handlers
   - Monitor error rates
   - Review error patterns
   - Monitor Redis health
   - Monitor template usage
   - Monitor stage transitions

4. **Error Recovery**
   - Implement retry logic
   - Use recovery handlers
   - Preserve error context
   - Chain recovery steps
   - Recover Redis state
   - Fallback templates
   - Rollback stages

## Integration

### API Integration
The error handling system is integrated with the API through:
- Error handler middleware
- Response formatting
- Error tracking
- Monitoring alerts

### Database Integration
Database errors are handled through:
- Specific error types
- Recovery mechanisms
- Transaction management
- Connection handling

### Redis Integration
Redis errors are handled through:
- Redis-specific error types
- Connection recovery
- State recovery
- Cache invalidation
- Health checks
- Circuit breakers

### Template Integration
Template errors are handled through:
- Template validation
- Variable validation
- Rendering errors
- Cache errors
- Fallback templates
- Version control

### Stage Integration
Stage errors are handled through:
- Stage validation
- Transition validation
- State recovery
- Rollback mechanisms
- History tracking
- Conflict resolution

## Testing

The error handling system includes comprehensive tests:
- Unit tests for each component
- Integration tests for error flow
- Recovery mechanism tests
- Monitoring system tests
- Redis error tests
- Template error tests
- Stage error tests

## Maintenance

Regular maintenance tasks include:
- Error pattern analysis
- Threshold adjustments
- Recovery strategy updates
- Log rotation and cleanup
- Redis health checks
- Template validation
- Stage transition review

## Future Improvements

Planned improvements:
- Enhanced error analytics
- Machine learning for error prediction
- Automated recovery strategies
- Improved error visualization
- Redis failover automation
- Template version control
- Stage conflict resolution

## Related Documentation
- See `planning/code_patterns.md` for implementation patterns
- See `planning/template_system.md` for template details
- See `planning/stage_management.md` for stage management
- See `planning/message_handling_flow.md` for message flow

Last Updated: 2025-05-12
