planning/troubleshooting.md, before:

# Troubleshooting Guide

## Common Issues and Solutions

### 1. Error Handling System

#### Error: "Invalid Error Response"
**Symptoms**:
- Inconsistent error responses
- Missing error details
- Invalid error format

**Solutions**:
1. Use proper error classes (ICMPError, APIError, etc.)
2. Include required error fields (code, message, details)
3. Follow error response format
4. Use error tracking system
5. Check error middleware logs

#### Error: "Error Tracking Failure"
**Symptoms**:
- Missing error statistics
- Incomplete error details
- Error tracking errors

**Solutions**:
1. Verify error tracking initialization
2. Check error tracking configuration
3. Monitor error tracking logs
4. Use proper error tracking methods
5. Clean up error tracking data

### 2. Database Connection Issues

#### Error: "Connection refused"
**Symptoms**:
- Database connection failures
- "Connection refused" errors in logs
- Application unable to start

**Solutions**:
1. Check database service is running
2. Verify database credentials
3. Check firewall settings
4. Verify database URL format
5. Check network connectivity

#### Error: "Connection pool exhausted"
**Symptoms**:
- Slow response times
- Connection timeouts
- "Connection pool exhausted" errors

**Solutions**:
1. Increase pool size
2. Check for connection leaks
3. Implement proper connection release
4. Add connection timeout
5. Monitor pool usage

### 3. API Issues

#### Error: "Invalid API Key"
**Symptoms**:
- 401 Unauthorized responses
- "Invalid API key" errors
- Authentication failures

**Solutions**:
1. Verify API key format
2. Check API key expiration
3. Validate API key in database
4. Check API key permissions
5. Regenerate API key if needed

#### Error: "Rate Limit Exceeded"
**Symptoms**:
- 429 Too Many Requests responses
- Rate limit errors in logs
- Request throttling

**Solutions**:
1. Implement rate limiting
2. Add request queuing
3. Implement retry logic
4. Monitor API usage
5. Adjust rate limits

### 4. Message Processing Issues

#### Error: "Invalid Message Format"
**Symptoms**:
- Message processing failures
- Invalid format errors
- Message rejection

**Solutions**:
1. Validate message format
2. Check message schema
3. Update message handling
4. Add format validation
5. Log message details

#### Error: "Webhook Verification Failed"
**Symptoms**:
- Webhook rejections
- Verification failures
- Integration issues

**Solutions**:
1. Verify webhook URL
2. Check verification token
3. Validate request format
4. Update webhook configuration
5. Check platform settings

### 5. AI Integration Issues

#### Error: "OpenAI API Error"
**Symptoms**:
- AI response failures
- API timeout errors
- Invalid response format

**Solutions**:
1. Check API key
2. Verify API quota
3. Implement retry logic
4. Add error handling
5. Monitor API usage

#### Error: "Invalid Prompt Format"
**Symptoms**:
- Prompt rejection
- Format errors
- Invalid response

**Solutions**:
1. Validate prompt format
2. Check prompt length
3. Update prompt template
4. Add format validation
5. Log prompt details

### 6. Template Issues

#### Error: "Template Not Found"
**Symptoms**:
- Template loading failures
- Missing template errors
- Invalid template ID

**Solutions**:
1. Verify template ID
2. Check template existence
3. Validate template format
4. Update template handling
5. Log template details

#### Error: "Invalid Template Format"
**Symptoms**:
- Template parsing errors
- Format validation failures
- Template rejection

**Solutions**:
1. Validate template format
2. Check template schema
3. Update template structure
4. Add format validation
5. Log template details

### 7. Configuration Issues

#### Error: "Missing Configuration"
**Symptoms**:
- Application startup failures
- Missing config errors
- Invalid configuration

**Solutions**:
1. Check environment variables
2. Verify config file
3. Validate configuration
4. Update config handling
5. Log config details

#### Error: "Invalid Configuration"
**Symptoms**:
- Config validation failures
- Invalid format errors
- Configuration rejection

**Solutions**:
1. Validate config format
2. Check config schema
3. Update config structure
4. Add format validation
5. Log config details

### 8. Logging Issues

#### Error: "Logging Configuration Error"
**Symptoms**:
- Missing logs
- Invalid log format
- Logging failures

**Solutions**:
1. Check log configuration
2. Verify log permissions
3. Update log format
4. Add log rotation
5. Monitor log size

#### Error: "Log File Full"
**Symptoms**:
- Logging failures
- Disk space issues
- Application slowdown

**Solutions**:
1. Implement log rotation
2. Clean up old logs
3. Monitor disk space
4. Update log retention
5. Add log compression

### 9. Performance Issues

#### Error: "Slow Response Times"
**Symptoms**:
- High latency
- Timeout errors
- Resource exhaustion

**Solutions**:
1. Optimize database queries
2. Implement caching
3. Add load balancing
4. Monitor performance
5. Scale resources

#### Error: "Memory Leak"
**Symptoms**:
- Increasing memory usage
- Application slowdown
- Resource exhaustion

**Solutions**:
1. Check for memory leaks
2. Implement garbage collection
3. Monitor memory usage
4. Update resource limits
5. Add memory profiling

## Error Response Format

### Standard Error Response
```json
{
    "error": {
        "code": "ERROR_CODE",
        "message": "Human readable error message",
        "details": {
            "field_errors": {
                "field_name": "Error message"
            },
            "context": "Additional error context"
        }
    }
}
```

### Common Error Codes
- `VALIDATION_ERROR`: Input validation failed
- `AUTHENTICATION_ERROR`: Authentication failed
- `AUTHORIZATION_ERROR`: Permission denied
- `NOT_FOUND`: Resource not found
- `DATABASE_ERROR`: Database operation failed
- `SERVICE_ERROR`: External service error
- `INTERNAL_ERROR`: Unexpected system error

## Debugging Tools

### 1. Logging
```python
# Enable debug logging
logging.basicConfig(level=logging.DEBUG)

# Add context to logs
logger.debug("Operation details: %s", operation_details)
```

### 2. Monitoring
```python
# Add performance monitoring
start_time = time.time()
# Operation
end_time = time.time()
logger.info("Operation took %s seconds", end_time - start_time)
```

### 3. Error Tracking
```python
# Track error with context
from backend.error_handling import track_error, get_error_stats

# Track an error
error = ValidationError("Invalid input", field_errors={"name": "Required"})
track_error(error, context={"user_id": "123"})

# Get error statistics
stats = get_error_stats()
print(f"Total errors: {stats['total_errors']}")

# Get specific error stats
validation_stats = get_error_stats('VALIDATION_ERROR')
print(f"Validation errors: {validation_stats['count']}")
```

### 4. Error Handling Middleware
```python
# Register error handlers
from backend.error_handling import register_error_handlers

app = Flask(__name__)
register_error_handlers(app)

# Custom error handler
@app.errorhandler(ICMPError)
def handle_icmp_error(error):
    track_error(error)
    return jsonify(error.to_dict()), error.status_code
```

## Best Practices

### 1. Error Handling
- Use appropriate error classes
- Include detailed error messages
- Add error context when possible
- Track all errors
- Clean up error tracking data

### 2. Error Tracking
- Monitor error statistics
- Track error patterns
- Clean up old error data
- Use error context
- Log error details

### 3. Error Response
- Follow standard format
- Include error code
- Add helpful message
- Provide error details
- Set correct status code

## Related Documentation
- See [Error Handling Guide](error_handling.md) for detailed error handling procedures
- See [API Documentation](api_documentation.md) for error response formats
- See [Monitoring Guide](monitoring.md) for error tracking setup

Last Updated: 2025-05-12

# ICMP Events API Troubleshooting Guide

## Error Handling Procedures

### 1. Error Types and Usage

#### 1.1 Validation Errors
```python
from backend.error_handling import ValidationError

# Basic validation error
raise ValidationError("Invalid input data")

# With field errors
raise ValidationError(
    "Invalid input data",
    field_errors={
        "email": "Invalid email format",
        "password": "Password too short"
    }
)

# With additional details
raise ValidationError(
    "Invalid input data",
    field_errors={"field": "error"},
    details={"context": "user_registration"}
)
```

#### 1.2 Authentication Errors
```python
from backend.error_handling import AuthenticationError

# Basic authentication error
raise AuthenticationError("Invalid credentials")

# With token details
raise AuthenticationError(
    "Invalid token",
    details={"token_type": "JWT", "expired": True}
)
```

#### 1.3 Authorization Errors
```python
from backend.error_handling import AuthorizationError

# Basic authorization error
raise AuthorizationError("Insufficient permissions")

# With role information
raise AuthorizationError(
    "Insufficient permissions",
    required_role="admin",
    current_role="user"
)
```

### 2. Error Tracking and Monitoring

#### 2.1 Basic Error Tracking
```python
from backend.error_handling import track_error, get_error_stats

# Track an error
try:
    process_data()
except ValidationError as e:
    track_error(e)
    raise

# Get error statistics
stats = get_error_stats()
print(f"Total errors: {stats['total_errors']}")
print(f"Error distribution: {stats['error_counts']}")
```

#### 2.2 Error Monitoring
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorMonitor

# Initialize monitor
monitor = ErrorMonitor()

# Set alert threshold
monitor.set_alert_threshold(
    "VALIDATION_ERROR",
    rate=0.5,  # 50% error rate
    window_minutes=5
)

# Register alert handler
def alert_handler(error_type, rate, threshold):
    print(f"Alert: {error_type} rate {rate} exceeds threshold {threshold}")

monitor.register_alert_handler(alert_handler)
```

### 3. Error Recovery

#### 3.1 Basic Recovery
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorRecovery

# Initialize recovery
recovery = ErrorRecovery()

# Use recovery decorator
@recovery.recover
def process_data():
    # Will automatically recover from errors
    process_risky_operation()
```

#### 3.2 Custom Recovery
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorRecovery

# Define custom recovery handler
def custom_recovery(error):
    if isinstance(error, ValidationError):
        return {"status": "recovered", "action": "retry"}
    return None

# Use custom recovery
@recovery.recover(handler=custom_recovery)
def process_data():
    process_risky_operation()
```

### 4. Error Logging

#### 4.1 Basic Logging
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorLogger

# Initialize logger
logger = ErrorLogger()

# Log error
try:
    process_data()
except Exception as e:
    logger.log_error(e)
    raise
```

#### 4.2 Structured Logging
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorLogger

# Log with context
logger.log_error(
    error,
    context={
        "request_id": "123",
        "user_id": "456",
        "action": "process_data"
    },
    level="ERROR"
)
```

### 5. Error Response Formatting

#### 5.1 Basic Response
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorResponse

# Initialize response formatter
response = ErrorResponse()

# Format error response
error = ValidationError("Invalid input")
formatted = response.format_error(error)
```

#### 5.2 Custom Response
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorResponse

# Define custom formatter
def custom_format(error):
    return {
        "status": "error",
        "type": error.code,
        "message": error.message,
        "timestamp": datetime.now().isoformat()
    }

# Use custom formatter
response.register_formatter("VALIDATION_ERROR", custom_format)
```

### 6. Best Practices

1. **Error Type Selection**
   - Use specific error types for different scenarios
   - Include relevant details in error messages
   - Maintain consistent error codes

2. **Error Tracking**
   - Track all errors for monitoring
   - Include context information
   - Use appropriate log levels

3. **Error Recovery**
   - Implement retry mechanisms for transient failures
   - Use custom recovery handlers when needed
   - Preserve error context during recovery

4. **Error Monitoring**
   - Set appropriate alert thresholds
   - Monitor error rates and patterns
   - Implement alert handlers

5. **Error Logging**
   - Use structured logging
   - Include relevant context
   - Set appropriate log levels
   - Preserve stack traces

6. **Error Response**
   - Use consistent response format
   - Include helpful error messages
   - Provide relevant details
   - Set appropriate status codes

### 7. Common Issues and Solutions

1. **Validation Errors**
   - Check input data format
   - Verify required fields
   - Validate data types
   - Check field constraints

2. **Authentication Errors**
   - Verify API keys
   - Check token expiration
   - Validate credentials
   - Check permissions

3. **Database Errors**
   - Check connection
   - Verify queries
   - Handle constraints
   - Implement retries

4. **Service Errors**
   - Check service availability
   - Verify API endpoints
   - Handle timeouts
   - Implement fallbacks

### 8. Testing Error Handling

1. **Unit Tests**
```python
def test_validation_error():
    with pytest.raises(ValidationError) as exc_info:
        process_invalid_data()
    assert exc_info.value.code == "VALIDATION_ERROR"
    assert "field_errors" in exc_info.value.details
```

2. **Integration Tests**
```python
def test_error_handling_flow():
    response = client.post("/api/data", json={})
    assert response.status_code == 400
    data = response.get_json()
    assert data["error"]["code"] == "VALIDATION_ERROR"
```

3. **Error Recovery Tests**
```python
def test_error_recovery():
    result = process_with_recovery()
    assert result["status"] == "recovered"
    assert "error" in result
```

For more detailed information about the error handling system, see the [Implementation Guide](implementation_guide.md).

Commit message:

Remove deleted files and update modified files

planning/troubleshooting.md, after:

# Troubleshooting Guide

## Common Issues and Solutions

### 1. Error Handling System

#### Error: "Invalid Error Response"
**Symptoms**:
- Inconsistent error responses
- Missing error details
- Invalid error format

**Solutions**:
1. Use proper error classes (ICMPError, APIError, etc.)
2. Include required error fields (code, message, details)
3. Follow error response format
4. Use error tracking system
5. Check error middleware logs

#### Error: "Error Tracking Failure"
**Symptoms**:
- Missing error statistics
- Incomplete error details
- Error tracking errors

**Solutions**:
1. Verify error tracking initialization
2. Check error tracking configuration
3. Monitor error tracking logs
4. Use proper error tracking methods
5. Clean up error tracking data

### 2. Database Connection Issues

#### Error: "Connection refused"
**Symptoms**:
- Database connection failures
- "Connection refused" errors in logs
- Application unable to start

**Solutions**:
1. Check database service is running
2. Verify database credentials
3. Check firewall settings
4. Verify database URL format
5. Check network connectivity

#### Error: "Connection pool exhausted"
**Symptoms**:
- Slow response times
- Connection timeouts
- "Connection pool exhausted" errors

**Solutions**:
1. Increase pool size
2. Check for connection leaks
3. Implement proper connection release
4. Add connection timeout
5. Monitor pool usage

### 3. API Issues

#### Error: "Invalid API Key"
**Symptoms**:
- 401 Unauthorized responses
- "Invalid API key" errors
- Authentication failures

**Solutions**:
1. Verify API key format
2. Check API key expiration
3. Validate API key in database
4. Check API key permissions
5. Regenerate API key if needed

#### Error: "Rate Limit Exceeded"
**Symptoms**:
- 429 Too Many Requests responses
- Rate limit errors in logs
- Request throttling

**Solutions**:
1. Implement rate limiting
2. Add request queuing
3. Implement retry logic
4. Monitor API usage
5. Adjust rate limits

### 4. Message Processing Issues

#### Error: "Invalid Message Format"
**Symptoms**:
- Message processing failures
- Invalid format errors
- Message rejection

**Solutions**:
1. Validate message format
2. Check message schema
3. Update message handling
4. Add format validation
5. Log message details

#### Error: "Webhook Verification Failed"
**Symptoms**:
- Webhook rejections
- Verification failures
- Integration issues

**Solutions**:
1. Verify webhook URL
2. Check verification token
3. Validate request format
4. Update webhook configuration
5. Check platform settings

### 5. AI Integration Issues

#### Error: "OpenAI API Error"
**Symptoms**:
- AI response failures
- API timeout errors
- Invalid response format

**Solutions**:
1. Check API key
2. Verify API quota
3. Implement retry logic
4. Add error handling
5. Monitor API usage

#### Error: "Invalid Prompt Format"
**Symptoms**:
- Prompt rejection
- Format errors
- Invalid response

**Solutions**:
1. Validate prompt format
2. Check prompt length
3. Update prompt template
4. Add format validation
5. Log prompt details

### 6. Template Issues

#### Error: "Template Not Found"
**Symptoms**:
- Template loading failures
- Missing template errors
- Invalid template ID

**Solutions**:
1. Verify template ID
2. Check template existence
3. Validate template format
4. Update template handling
5. Log template details

#### Error: "Invalid Template Format"
**Symptoms**:
- Template parsing errors
- Format validation failures
- Template rejection

**Solutions**:
1. Validate template format
2. Check template schema
3. Update template structure
4. Add format validation
5. Log template details

### 7. Configuration Issues

#### Error: "Missing Configuration"
**Symptoms**:
- Application startup failures
- Missing config errors
- Invalid configuration

**Solutions**:
1. Check environment variables
2. Verify config file
3. Validate configuration
4. Update config handling
5. Log config details

#### Error: "Invalid Configuration"
**Symptoms**:
- Config validation failures
- Invalid format errors
- Configuration rejection

**Solutions**:
1. Validate config format
2. Check config schema
3. Update config structure
4. Add format validation
5. Log config details

### 8. Logging Issues

#### Error: "Logging Configuration Error"
**Symptoms**:
- Missing logs
- Invalid log format
- Logging failures

**Solutions**:
1. Check log configuration
2. Verify log permissions
3. Update log format
4. Add log rotation
5. Monitor log size

#### Error: "Log File Full"
**Symptoms**:
- Logging failures
- Disk space issues
- Application slowdown

**Solutions**:
1. Implement log rotation
2. Clean up old logs
3. Monitor disk space
4. Update log retention
5. Add log compression

### 9. Performance Issues

#### Error: "Slow Response Times"
**Symptoms**:
- High latency
- Timeout errors
- Resource exhaustion

**Solutions**:
1. Optimize database queries
2. Implement caching
3. Add load balancing
4. Monitor performance
5. Scale resources

#### Error: "Memory Leak"
**Symptoms**:
- Increasing memory usage
- Application slowdown
- Resource exhaustion

**Solutions**:
1. Check for memory leaks
2. Implement garbage collection
3. Monitor memory usage
4. Update resource limits
5. Add memory profiling

## Error Response Format

### Standard Error Response
```json
{
    "error": {
        "code": "ERROR_CODE",
        "message": "Human readable error message",
        "details": {
            "field_errors": {
                "field_name": "Error message"
            },
            "context": "Additional error context"
        }
    }
}
```

### Common Error Codes
- `VALIDATION_ERROR`: Input validation failed
- `AUTHENTICATION_ERROR`: Authentication failed
- `AUTHORIZATION_ERROR`: Permission denied
- `NOT_FOUND`: Resource not found
- `DATABASE_ERROR`: Database operation failed
- `SERVICE_ERROR`: External service error
- `INTERNAL_ERROR`: Unexpected system error

## Debugging Tools

### 1. Logging
```python
# Enable debug logging
logging.basicConfig(level=logging.DEBUG)

# Add context to logs
logger.debug("Operation details: %s", operation_details)
```

### 2. Monitoring
```python
# Add performance monitoring
start_time = time.time()
# Operation
end_time = time.time()
logger.info("Operation took %s seconds", end_time - start_time)
```

### 3. Error Tracking
```python
# Track error with context
from backend.error_handling import track_error, get_error_stats

# Track an error
error = ValidationError("Invalid input", field_errors={"name": "Required"})
track_error(error, context={"user_id": "123"})

# Get error statistics
stats = get_error_stats()
print(f"Total errors: {stats['total_errors']}")

# Get specific error stats
validation_stats = get_error_stats('VALIDATION_ERROR')
print(f"Validation errors: {validation_stats['count']}")
```

### 4. Error Handling Middleware
```python
# Register error handlers
from backend.error_handling import register_error_handlers

app = Flask(__name__)
register_error_handlers(app)

# Custom error handler
@app.errorhandler(ICMPError)
def handle_icmp_error(error):
    track_error(error)
    return jsonify(error.to_dict()), error.status_code
```

## Best Practices

### 1. Error Handling
- Use appropriate error classes
- Include detailed error messages
- Add error context when possible
- Track all errors
- Clean up error tracking data

### 2. Error Tracking
- Monitor error statistics
- Track error patterns
- Clean up old error data
- Use error context
- Log error details

### 3. Error Response
- Follow standard format
- Include error code
- Add helpful message
- Provide error details
- Set correct status code

## Related Documentation
- See [Error Handling Guide](error_handling.md) for detailed error handling procedures
- See [API Documentation](api_documentation.md) for error response formats
- See [Monitoring Guide](monitoring.md) for error tracking setup

Last Updated: 2025-05-12

# ICMP Events API Troubleshooting Guide

> **Note (2025-05-12):** ErrorConfig, ErrorMonitor, ErrorLogger, ErrorResponse, ErrorValidator, and ErrorRecovery are now present as stubs in `backend/error_handling/errors.py` for test compatibility. Update your imports or references as needed.

## Error Handling Procedures

### 1. Error Types and Usage

#### 1.1 Validation Errors
```python
from backend.error_handling import ValidationError

# Basic validation error
raise ValidationError("Invalid input data")

# With field errors
raise ValidationError(
    "Invalid input data",
    field_errors={
        "email": "Invalid email format",
        "password": "Password too short"
    }
)

# With additional details
raise ValidationError(
    "Invalid input data",
    field_errors={"field": "error"},
    details={"context": "user_registration"}
)
```

#### 1.2 Authentication Errors
```python
from backend.error_handling import AuthenticationError

# Basic authentication error
raise AuthenticationError("Invalid credentials")

# With token details
raise AuthenticationError(
    "Invalid token",
    details={"token_type": "JWT", "expired": True}
)
```

#### 1.3 Authorization Errors
```python
from backend.error_handling import AuthorizationError

# Basic authorization error
raise AuthorizationError("Insufficient permissions")

# With role information
raise AuthorizationError(
    "Insufficient permissions",
    required_role="admin",
    current_role="user"
)
```

### 2. Error Tracking and Monitoring

#### 2.1 Basic Error Tracking
```python
from backend.error_handling import track_error, get_error_stats

# Track an error
try:
    process_data()
except ValidationError as e:
    track_error(e)
    raise

# Get error statistics
stats = get_error_stats()
print(f"Total errors: {stats['total_errors']}")
print(f"Error distribution: {stats['error_counts']}")
```

#### 2.2 Error Monitoring
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorMonitor

# Initialize monitor
monitor = ErrorMonitor()

# Set alert threshold
monitor.set_alert_threshold(
    "VALIDATION_ERROR",
    rate=0.5,  # 50% error rate
    window_minutes=5
)

# Register alert handler
def alert_handler(error_type, rate, threshold):
    print(f"Alert: {error_type} rate {rate} exceeds threshold {threshold}")

monitor.register_alert_handler(alert_handler)
```

### 3. Error Recovery

#### 3.1 Basic Recovery
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorRecovery

# Initialize recovery
recovery = ErrorRecovery()

# Use recovery decorator
@recovery.recover
def process_data():
    # Will automatically recover from errors
    process_risky_operation()
```

#### 3.2 Custom Recovery
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorRecovery

# Define custom recovery handler
def custom_recovery(error):
    if isinstance(error, ValidationError):
        return {"status": "recovered", "action": "retry"}
    return None

# Use custom recovery
@recovery.recover(handler=custom_recovery)
def process_data():
    process_risky_operation()
```

### 4. Error Logging

#### 4.1 Basic Logging
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorLogger

# Initialize logger
logger = ErrorLogger()

# Log error
try:
    process_data()
except Exception as e:
    logger.log_error(e)
    raise
```

#### 4.2 Structured Logging
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorLogger

# Log with context
logger.log_error(
    error,
    context={
        "request_id": "123",
        "user_id": "456",
        "action": "process_data"
    },
    level="ERROR"
)
```

### 5. Error Response Formatting

#### 5.1 Basic Response
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorResponse

# Initialize response formatter
response = ErrorResponse()

# Format error response
error = ValidationError("Invalid input")
formatted = response.format_error(error)
```

#### 5.2 Custom Response
```python
from backend.error_handling import ErrorResponse

# Define custom formatter
def custom_format(error):
    return {
        "status": "error",
        "type": error.code,
        "message": error.message,
        "timestamp": datetime.now().isoformat()
    }

# Use custom formatter
response.register_formatter("VALIDATION_ERROR", custom_format)
```

### 6. Best Practices

1. **Error Type Selection**
   - Use specific error types for different scenarios
   - Include relevant details in error messages
   - Maintain consistent error codes

2. **Error Tracking**
   - Track all errors for monitoring
   - Include context information
   - Use appropriate log levels

3. **Error Recovery**
   - Implement retry mechanisms for transient failures
   - Use custom recovery handlers when needed
   - Preserve error context during recovery

4. **Error Monitoring**
   - Set appropriate alert thresholds
   - Monitor error rates and patterns
   - Implement alert handlers

5. **Error Logging**
   - Use structured logging
   - Include relevant context
   - Set appropriate log levels
   - Preserve stack traces

6. **Error Response**
   - Use consistent response format
   - Include helpful error messages
   - Provide relevant details
   - Set appropriate status codes

### 7. Common Issues and Solutions

1. **Validation Errors**
   - Check input data format
   - Verify required fields
   - Validate data types
   - Check field constraints

2. **Authentication Errors**
   - Verify API keys
   - Check token expiration
   - Validate credentials
   - Check permissions

3. **Database Errors**
   - Check connection
   - Verify queries
   - Handle constraints
   - Implement retries

4. **Service Errors**
   - Check service availability
   - Verify API endpoints
   - Handle timeouts
   - Implement fallbacks

### 8. Testing Error Handling

1. **Unit Tests**
```python
def test_validation_error():
    with pytest.raises(ValidationError) as exc_info:
        process_invalid_data()
    assert exc_info.value.code == "VALIDATION_ERROR"
    assert "field_errors" in exc_info.value.details
```

2. **Integration Tests**
```python
def test_error_handling_flow():
    response = client.post("/api/data", json={})
    assert response.status_code == 400
    data = response.get_json()
    assert data["error"]["code"] == "VALIDATION_ERROR"
```

3. **Error Recovery Tests**
```python
def test_error_recovery():
    result = process_with_recovery()
    assert result["status"] == "recovered"
    assert "error" in result
```

For more detailed information about the error handling system, see the [Implementation Guide](implementation_guide.md).
